WIP component definition tutorial issue #854 (#935)
usnistgov/OSCAL: docs/content/learn/tutorials/component-definition/component.md

---
title: Creating a Component Definition
description: A tutorial on creating an OSCAL component definition.
weight: 6
suppresstopiclist: true
toc:
  enabled: true
aliases:
  - /tutorials/component/
---

This tutorial covers creating a basic OSCAL component definition. Before reading this tutorial you should:

- Have some familiarity with the [XML](https://www.w3.org/standards/xml/core), [JSON](https://www.json.org/), or [YAML](https://yaml.org/spec/) formats.
- Read the OSCAL implementation layer [overview](/concepts/layer/implementation/).

> - Review the OSCAL [component definition](/concepts/layer/implementation/component-definition/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Review the OSCAL [component definition](/concepts/layer/implementation/component-definition/) model overview.
```

> - Be familiar with OSCAL properties and links.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Be familiar with the use of OSCAL properties and links.
```

## What is an OSCAL Component Definition?

> A component definition describes how a given implementation of a component or sets of components (e.g., hardware, software, service, policy, process, or procedure) can support specific controls.  Product and Service Vendors, Capability Owners, Policy and Process Owners, and others can create component definitions that readily serve as inputs for a System Security Plan (SSP), helping describe how components might satisfy controls.  It is important to note that component definitions do not describe actual implementations. Component definitions serve as references with content that can be used (e.g., in the SSP OSCAL model) to develop comprehensive and consistent control implementations within an SSP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An OSCAL component definition describes how a given implementation of a component or a set of components (e.g., hardware, software, service, policy, process, or procedure) can support specific controls.  Product and service vendors, capability owners, policy and process owners, and others can create component definitions that readily serve as inputs for a System Security Plan (SSP), helping describe how components might satisfy controls.  It is important to note that component definitions do not describe actual implementations; rather, component definitions describe possible implementations which can be instantiated within an information system. Thus, component definitions serve as references with content that can be used (e.g., in the SSP OSCAL model) to develop comprehensive and consistent control implementations within an SSP.
```

> In this tutorial, we will walk through the process of creating an [OSCAL component definition model](/documentation/schema/implementation-layer/component/) for [MongoDB](https://docs.mongodb.com/).  Our goal is to provide standard control implementations for the benefit of system owners and SSP authors. As potential components in systems that may need to meet the OMB A-130 Authorization to Operate requirements, the component definition in this tutorial will demonstrate proper implementation of a couple [NIST SP 800-53 rev 5 controls](https://github.com/usnistgov/oscal-content/tree/master/nist.gov/SP800-53/rev5/xml) deemed necessary for high / moderate / low impact systems. While this example focuses on NIST controls, the same approach could be used for any cybersecurity frameworks and their respective controls.  We'll presume the MongoDB component can partially or fully satisfy the following controls:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we will walk through the process of creating an [OSCAL component definition model](/documentation/schema/implementation-layer/component/) for [MongoDB](https://docs.mongodb.com/).  Our goal is to provide standard control implementations for the benefit of system owners and SSP authors. As potential components in systems that may need to meet the OMB A-130 Authorization to Operate requirements, the component definition in this tutorial will demonstrate proper implementation of a couple [NIST SP 800-53 rev 5 controls](https://github.com/usnistgov/oscal-content/tree/master/nist.gov/SP800-53/rev5/xml) deemed necessary for high, moderate, or low impact systems. While this example focuses on NIST controls, the same approach could be applied to any catalog of controls (e.g., ISO/IEC 27002).

For the purposes of this tutorial we'll presume the MongoDB component can partially or fully satisfy the following controls:
```

| NIST 800-53 rev5 Control | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| SA-4(9) | Acquisition Process - Functions, Ports, Protocols, and Services in Use |
| SC-8(1) | Transmission Confidentiality and Integrity |

> In this tutorial, we’ll demonstrate how to use the `<implemented-requirement>` element’s `@control-id` attribute for traceability between the component definition model, its components, the component’s control implementations and associated implemented requirements.

Reviewer: This references XML elements, but doesn't apply in the context of JSON or YAML. You should reference the concept here, not the tags and then tie the concept later to the specific syntax.

> ---

Reviewer: This file should be named `_index.md`. Issue the command `git mv component.md _index.md` to rename it.

title: Creating a Component Definition
description: A tutorial on creating an OSCAL component definition.
weight: 6
suppresstopiclist: true
toc:
  enabled: true
aliases:

>   - /tutorials/component/

Reviewer: You don't need this.
